ECE 375 Lab 4 Prelab
Sean Rettig

1. For this lab, you will be asked to perform arithmetic operations on numbers
that are larger than 8-bits. To do this, you should understand the different
arithmetic operations supported by the AVR Architecture. List and describe all
the different forms of ADD, SUB, and MUL (i.e. ADC, SUBI, MULF, etc.).

ADC: Add with carry - Two registers and the carry bit are added and the result is placed in the first register.
ADD: Add without carry - Two registers are added and the result is placed in the first register, with the carry bit ignored.
ADIW: Add Immediate to Word - Adds a register pair (of the upper four register pairs) to an immediate value (from 0-63) and puts the result in the register pair.
SBC: Subtract with carry - Two registers and the carry bit are subtracted and the result is placed in the first register.
SUB: Subtract without carry - Two registers are subtracted and the result is placed in the first register, with the carry bit ignored.
SUBI: Subtract Immediate - One register and a constant are subtracted and the result is placed in the register, with the carry bit ignored.
SBCI: Subtract Immediate with Carry - One register, a constant, and the carry bit are subtracted and the result is placed in the register.
SBIW: Subtract Immediate from Word - Subtracts a register pair (of the upper four register pairs) and an immediate value (from 0-63) and puts the result in the register pair.
MUL: Multiply Unsigned - Multiplies the two registers (with unsigned numbers) and places the result in R1 and R0.
MULS: Multiply Signed - Multiplies the two registers (with signed numbers) and places the result in R1 and R0.
MULSU: Multiply Signed - Multiplies the two registers (with the first one being signed and the second one being unsigned) and places the signed result in R1 and R0.
FMUL: Fractional version of MUL; also shifts the result one bit to the left.
FMULS: Fractional version of MULS; also shifts the result one bit to the left.
FMULSU: Fractional version of MULSU; also shifts the result one bit to the left.

2. Write pseudo-code that describes a function that will take two 16-bit
numbers in data memory addresses $0110-$0111 and $0121- $0122 and add them
together. The function will then store the resulting 16-bit number at the
address $0100-$0101. (Hint: The upper address corresponds to the high byte of
the number and don’t forget about the carry in bit.)

    copy first number into a register pair from data memory
    copy second number into another register pair from data memory
    add low byte of each register pair
    add high byte of each register pair and the carry bit
    copy first register pair to destination in data memory
